# search_demo_2d
Simple Python based demonstration for 2D grid search using code from
AI:MA  (Russell and Norvig)


## Search Demo
  Run `python search_demo.py` to load the simple.png map and test against a collection of search algorithms.  

  The code saves images and video of results as well as search statistics.

## Arm Demo

  Run `python arm_demo.py`

  This reads in a configuration space (C-space) map generated by another program for
  a specific 2-link planar arm and obstacle configuration.

  See https://github.com/CNURobotics/arm_planning_2d for more information.

  The C-space map has been saved here as `config_space_bw.png`.

  The system then plans a path using A* from start configuration to goal configuration.

  The code was written treats the C-space as a bounded two-dimensional plane, and does NOT
  respect the torus topology of the rotational C-space.  Making this change is an
  excercise for the learner.

  Lines 94 to 102 are used to keep the system in bounds of the -pi to pi 2D bounds
  of the grid world.

  Lines 108-122 define the cost calculation.  

  For this demo we are only used pure red to indicate a blocked grid point, or 0 for open.
  The transitions are assigned an edge cost of 2 or 3, which is slightly more than twice
  Euclidean distance on the 2D grid .

  Line 276 sets up the test using the A* planner with 2 times Euclidean distance
  as heuristic; this is an reasonable approximation of our cost structure presuming 2D plane.

  The A* code defines the “actions” for expanding each node beginning in line 73.



The code has been tested on Ubuntu 20.04 with Anaconda Python 3.9 including Numpy and Matplotlib, as well as Mac OS Big Sur with Anaconda Python 3.8.

Required installing OpenCV.
<pre>
pip install opencv-python
</pre>
